MANHATI'AN, NEW YORK
Abuse.MALE VOICE: Abuse.
So you a Knick fan?
Ten million a year
they're paying Larry Brown.
I could make them suck just as bad
for half of that.
You from here?
You're not?
Out-of-town?
Suit yourself.
Murder.
Kill.
You sure this is where you want to be?
You hear me?
Walter Derbin, age 52.
His body was found in his cab
in East Harlem.
He was blindfolded
and shot once in the chest.
Death was caused
by a knife stabbed through his ear.
The UnSub broke off the handle
with the blade lodged in his brain.
It's the same signature
as two other murders.
Rachel Holman, 24, found in
her apartment three weeks ago
on the Lower East Side.
And Kaveh Surrani, 30.
Police found him two_weeks lat_er inside
hIS painting studio In Hell's Kitchen.
Different locations,
different victimology.
It's possible we're looking for someone
who will hunt indiscriminately.
-NYPD have any leads?
-Guy's a ghost.
He kills at night. There's no witnesses.
Is the NYPD feeling the strain?
Well, they've withheld details
so the press hasn't sniffed out a link
between the murders.
With no discernible victim patterns,
a killer's practically impossible to stop.
Did you know the original Zodiac Killer
actually continually changed his victims?
Young, old, men, women, white, black.
Exactly. And he killed for 30 years
without ever being caught.
W. H. Auden said,
"Murder is unique in that
it abolishes the party it injures.
"So that society must take the place
of the victim
"and, on his behalf, demand
atonement or grant forgiveness."
This is not how I planned to spend
a few days home in New York.
I'd kill for an afternoon
at Barneys and dinner at Il Cantinori.
I'm looking forward to seeing New York.
-You've never been to New York?
-We've never had an UnSub there.
I thought you were going to talk to
Reid about taking some vacation time.
What's vacation time?
Reid, it's a one-hour flight.
Well, if we have some time,
I'll show you around.
It's a three-hour train ride, man.
Okay, here's what we know.
Blitz attackers are almost always male.
And he got picked up in the
pouring rain by a New York cabbie,
so we definitely know he's not a brother.
The fact that he kills in a major
urban setting without detection
indicates he's highly intelligent.
How intelligent can he be?
I mean, blitz attackers
are textbook disorganized killers.
Yeah, but he brings along a murder kit.
Blindfold, knife.
How disorganized can he be?
We'll split up.
We'll take the last two crime scenes.
In the meantime,
let's talk about what we can agree on.
Blindfold likely means one of two things.
The UnSub might blindfold them initially
if he's unsure of killing them
and wants to avoid detection.
Exactly, but since we know the cab
driver couldn't have been blindfolded
when he drove the UnSub,
we're looking at reason number two.
Blindfolding a victim
suggests the UnSub feels remorse.
Doesn't want his victims to look at him,
as he kills them.
Nothing.
It's been vacant for a couple of months.
This train goes express
after midnight, it doesn't even stop here.
He picked this spot beforehand.
His last fare was logged
at an address on Church Street.
Do you have any idea what's there?
Church is an entry point from Brooklyn.
There's a dive there
where the cabbies stop for coffee
before the overnight shift.
Explains how he got a cab.
This guy is definitely not disorganized.
Rachel Holman's change-of-address card.
She'd just moved in.
Hadn't even filled it out yet.
So she probably didn't know her neighbors
and they weren't likely
to check in on her.
Nope, and I also found this.
It's a printout of AA meetings
in the area.
She was starting a new life.
Hey, you guys, check this out.
The cops' theory is that she was home.
That the UnSub broke in through
the front window and surprised her.
But, look,
this is the gunshot to the chest.
This is the knife to the head.
So then after she was shot,
she tried to run away from him,
toward the door.
Exactly.
He was already in the apartment
when she got home.
The hallway is the only room in
the apartment with no windows.
No one could see him,
so he just waited patiently.
All right. So, she comes home,
and she opens the door.
She walks in the hallway.
She walks down and then,
bam, he shoots her right here.
But she tries to run away,
and he's on her.
So, why didn't he just shoot her again?
Why stab her and break the blade off
in her head?
Well, there are a number of possibilities.
Through the ear
is the softest path to the brain.
Snapping the handle's also common
in prison shankings.
Break it off,
other guy can't pull the blade out.
What's the other possibility?
Lawrence Bittaker and Roy Norris
drove ice picks
into their victims' heads
and broke off the handle.
It's possible our UnSub
is sort of a serial killer groupie.
So is this guy an ex-con or some
nut-job with an Amazon account?
This particular UnSub
presents a mixed profile.
No offense, but, then what good is it?
The profile's just a starting point
for narrowing down the suspects.
For instance, the fact that the UnSub
shoots his victims first,
it suggests that he wants
a quick and effective means
of controlling the situation.
It's possible that he feels
he can't overpower his victims.
It could be that he has a physical problem
or that he's not confident
just because he's small.
We now know
he has a high degree of organization.
That, coupled with the fact
that he hunts at night,
means he probably has a steady job.
So, we're looking for a small,
angry, white guy with a day job?
-Maybe it_'s Wilson.
Cut it.
No, no, it's all right, it's all right.
You're right.
There's a lot we still don't know,
but we do know this,
these are not blitz attacks.
They're too controlled.
These are absolutely executions.
An UnSub's signature
is his own extremely rare combination
of MO and ritual.
An UnSub kills to satisfy an inner need
and will continue killing
until that inner need,
which is based on a ritual,
is lived out perfectly.
Because reality never lives up to fantasy,
this becomes an impossibility.
In other words, he's not gonna stop
killing until we catch him.
Okay, hit the streets
and keep your head on a swivel.
Thank you very much.
Hi. Jennifer Jareau,
we spoke on the phone.
-Detective Bennett.
-Agent Hotchner.
Hello.
So, I spoke to your point man.
I reiterated how important it is to keep
the crime scene details under wraps,
but it would go a long way
if it came out of your mouth, too.
You got it.
If this guy is who we think he is,
we're talking terror like New York
hasn't seen since Son of Sam.
May I help you?
Are you okay?
So, this is where terror starts.
-How'd they find him?
-The night janitor.
He see anything?
No, but he remembered a parishioner
who was here earlier.
-So we have a potential witness.
-Right there.
This lady?
-Mmm-hmm.
-Elle.
-Yeah.
First public killing. Getting bolder, huh?
Didn't let his surroundings alter
his method. He's meticulous.
Presentation's every bit
as important as the kill.
As soon as the police asked me
if I'd seen anything,
I had a sickly feeling.
-So you saw him?
-Not his face.
He had a hood on,
and he kept his head down.
But something about his behavior
unsettled you?
I'm sorry. I should have known.
There is no way that someone
could know something like this.
It almost felt like he couldn't hear me.
Like he was in his own world, you know?
-You spoke to him?
-I just asked if he was okay.
-And he didn't speak?
-He didn't even look up.
I couldn't stop watching his hands.
They were moving like he was playing
a piano or fingering a rosary maybe...
He could have killed me.
Unless he's not killing at random.
And whatever these people have
in common's what got them killed.
I'm sorry. Would it be possible to
maybe slide that thing out of his ear?
I thought maybe he was uncomfortable
being in this parish.
-Why would he be uncomfortable?
-Because of all that business.
A year ago,
the rector was indicted for pedophilia.
A lot of people stopped worshiping here,
but Father Breeman was tried in
a court of law and found innocent.
It's not my place to question that.
He's not using just any knife.
It's made of flint.
As in stone?
In Egyptian mythology, flint was the
symbol for protection and retribution.
With hieroglyphics, they used to depict
-dangerous animals...
-Excuse me.
...like scorpions and snakes
being cut with flint knives
in order to render them powerless.
-Anything strike you as strange?
-Well, blood's all on the inside.
Font of all knowledge. Check my flow.
I need you to check all the victims
and see if any were ever charged
with a crime.
Okay. You want to time me or
should I just dazzle you off the clock?
Okay, Kaveh Surrani.
Vehicular manslaughter.
Tried and found not guilty July 2002.
Rachel Holman. Convicted of
cocaine possessmn, 2004.
Oh, baby girl, just say no.
No acquittals?
No, wait. Hold on. Same case.
She was also up on charges
for administering
a fatal close of heroin to her boyfriend.
Jury found her not guilty.
Can we go three for three?
Yahtzee. Our cabbie, Walter Derbin.
Spousal battery. Bastard.
-But he was innocent?-If you want to call it that.
Charges were dropped mid-trial,
four months ago.
You're a genius.
You're just saying that 'cause it's true.
Thanks.
The victim was blindfolded first,
the blood would have flowed
over the blindfold.
He puts it on after he kills them.
All three charged with a felony,
all three found innocent.
And that didn't show up
on your man's radar?
Acquittals? No.
-Why is it important?
-Because we have a new profile.
We now believe these killings
aren't random.
We might be dealing with a vigilante.
UnSub first shoots his victims
in order to subdue them.
Flint knife then provides both an
efficient kill and symbolic retribution.
Finally, the victim is blindfolded,
like the statue of Lady Justice.
This particular UnSub,
he displays both a heightened, he's...
It's actually almost a poetic sense
of right and wrong.
Serial vigilantes are extremely rare.
The exaggerated drama of these killings
suggests that they're somehow personal.
_He or someone close _to him _
was likely the Victim of a Violent crime.
His first killing was possibly
against his original attacker.
And since then he's developed
an overblown sense of justice
in order to justify
that killing to himself.
Because he chooses
the imagery of Lady Justice,
it's possible we're dealing with someone
who_w_orks_in or around
the criminal justice system.
Lawyer, paralegal, bailiff, even a judge.
We'll crosscheck unsolved murders
against suspects in assault cases
and victims who work in the system.
Whatever the UnSub's job,
he's someone who's a cog in the machine.
He's overworked, undervalued.
He's used to not being noticed.
His sense of theatrics is a way
to enhance his own self-esteem.
Convince himself he has a higher purpose,
but he also knows
that people look right through him.
Being faceless is his best defense
against detection.
He's everyone.
One last thing,
we need you to close ranks.
The more details slip out,
the more he'll feed off it.
We don't want him believing
he's captured the public's fear
or imagination.
Too late.
The afternoon edition's
leading with the vigilante story.
-How did they get it?
-I don't know.
You were worried about this guy
becoming another Son of Sam.
Now we might be dealing with a
vigilante folk hero like Bernhard Goetz.
So you know there was a big hole in
the profile you presented back there.
Can you pass the moo shu, please?
What's the hole?
I left out the possibility
our UnSub might be a cop.
Well, they do know the system.
They're definitely
overworked and underpaid.
They see so much injustice every day
they can easily take matters
into their own hands.
When someone like our victim is killed,
police refer to the murder
as a public service murder.
You know how many rapists I saw walk
during my Sex Crime clays?
And either the victims,
they didn't want to press charges,
or the juries they said
that she was asking for it.
It was enough to make you explode.
Well, it's a long way from feeling like
that and actually committing murder.
-Don't you think?
-Oh, not really.
Excuse me, could I get a fork, perhaps?
Su_re.
Did you know that experts credit Confucius
with the advent of the chopstick?
He equated knives with acts of aggression.
You don't know how to use them, do you?
It's like trying to forage for dinner
with a pair of number two pencils.
Okay, here let me help you.
Oh, the rubber band trick.
-Yeah, the rubber band trick.
Well, New York City cops do have
a lot of pressure on them.
Every move they make gets scrutinized.
One of the first cases of
criminal profiling happened
when a New York City cop
asked a criminal psychiatrist friend
to help with the Mad Bomber case.
The Mad Bomber was a major
inspiration for the Unabomber.
He eluded cops in New York
for 16 years, starting in 1940,
but he kept his promise
and never set off a single bomb
during the Second World War.
Psychiatrist James Brussels,
he developed a profile so accurate,
he predicted that
when they caught the Bomber,
he'd be wearing a double-breasted suit
and it would be buttoned.
You guys, we're here in New York
and even when we're not talking
about our case,
we end up talking about another profiler.
You're right.
So, Elle, are you seeing anyone?
Gideon, why didn't you tell the cops
that it might be one of their own?
If we're gonna catch the guy, we need
all the help the cops can give us.
Last thing I wanna do
is accuse one of them of murder.
Murder.
Kill.
How's it going there?
-Awesome.
Gideon.
It's absolutely incredible,
1.3 billion people
stay nourished using these things.
Yeah. Okay. I got it.
He just took out a cop-killer.
His name's Shawn Cooley.
One year ago he killed two
Port Authority cops and he walked,
because the only witness against him
was shot six times outside his apartment.
Might be worth having your men
re-canvass this morning.
People are more likely to talk in the day.
They feel safer.
I'm already on it.
More bad news.
It's the same reporter every time.
Lance Wagner.
He's practically deifying him.
I'm not even happy with the results
when God plays God.
You know, a few of the men were talking
about making him
a wish list of other dirtbags.
"Someday a real rain will come and
wash all the scum off the streets."
Taxi Driver.
This town loves a psychopath.
Why hasn't he contacted the press yet?
Reid's right.
He's got the symbolism,
the inflated sense of duty.
-He should be seeking out acclaim.
-Maybe it's not about acclaim with him.
He's on a mission.
Maybe it's about the work.
Yeah, but the last two cases were
a cop-killer and a pedophile priest.
-Those are higher-profile cases.
-He's getting more confident.
He's growing into his role
as the city's judge and executioner.
I'll check the press archives
for controversial acquittals.
Maybe we can target the victim
before the UnSub.
Oh, good.
Hey, guys, listen to
what came off the tip hotline.
I got a tip. Let the guy be.
How come
the NYPD wants to catch this guy?
Are you jealous
he's doing the job better than you?
-It goes on for half an hour.
-He's a hero.
The exact same thing happened with
the Goetz New York subway shooting
-in the early '805.
-You weren't even born.
I read a lot.
Hey. Talk to me, baby.
Who do you love?
Well, that depends on
what you're giving me.
Don't be such a man.
I ran the names of the five victims
like you asked.
No overlap in arresting officers,
public defenders, or district attorney.
-Do I sense a "but?"
-Small "but."
That's not what I was jonesing for.
Mmm. You're killing me with entendres,
but each one was processed
at the Manhattan Criminal Courthouse
at 100 Centre Street.
Do you have any idea how many cases
run through there every year?
122,998, but, at least,
we've eliminated four other boroughs.
Yeah, great. All right.
It's a start. Thanks.
Hmm. Ta.
Do you have any idea how many cases...
122,998 cases a year.
We'll check it out.
Maybe there's someone with a history
of erratic behavior
who worked in the building.
Crime groupies.
Security guard that fits the profile.
Get with JJ. See what you can make of
her case list.
-Okay.
-I'll go with you.
Ever crossed your mind?
-Taking the law into my own hands?
-Not the law, justice.
What's this about
It's just a question.
I guess I think
ifI ever let my mind go there,
then the UnSubs would be getting
into my head
instead of me getting into theirs.
That wouldn't be a good idea,
now would it?
The cops have already been down here
asking their questions.
I just wanted to give you a description
of someone,
see if he sounds familiar.
He's quiet, he...
Body language gives the impression
he's seen too much.
Work in this building long enough,
we all get that way.
You might not notice him at first
but when you do,
you realize
he's heard everything around him.
He might have had a personal brush
with crime.
When it happened,
he talked about it all the time,
but now you realize
he hasn't mentioned it in quite a while.
And when the subject of the vigilante
comes up, he expresses his support,
but it's not something he would
bring up in conversation himself.
Well, if people are being honest with you,
that's most of the people
in this building.
-How old are you?
-24.
I'll give you six years.
That point, a tiny part of your brain
will be asking
if what this guy's doing
isn't the right way to go.
-Anything
No.
What happened in Iowa?
It was one of the first cases
Hotch and I worked together.
Small town, two boys had
been murdered, same signature.
Profile led us to the local 4-H leader.
We went to interview him, the guy,
he was suicidal.
He had a shotgun. Our guns were drawn.
And at some point,
he turns the shotgun on Hotch,
but instead of firing,
Hotch talks him down.
The guy surrenders.
Sounds like pretty good work.
At trial, the guy's wife gave him an alibi
for both murders.
Small town, they all knew each other.
Jurors believed her.
Eventually they got him
when he killed another boy.
Any luck?
This guy's not doing us any favors.
His access is unbelievable.
He's practically scooping us.
The FBI needs help, and they get you
to do their bidding?
I am an FBI Special Agent.
The rest of the team is too busy.
They're out on the field.
Yeah, and they're doing
a bang-up job, too.
Look, the fact is, you've scooped
every other reporter in New York.
You've even managed to be ahead
of the cops a few times.
A good crime reporter needs
to be better than the police.
You got less to go on.
Well, that's why Agent Gideon was hoping
you'd accept this invitation to help.
-Jason Gideon?
-Mmm-hmm.
-He used to be one of the best.
-He still is.
Yeah, he had, kind of, a famous meltdown.
And a whole string of successes
since he's returned.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Meltdowns make better copy.
Well, maybe you can take that up
with him, yourself.
You know, if you decide to come in.
So, how did you put together
the vigilante angle so quickly?
I covered the original trials
of all the victims.
Must have a good memory.
A lot of killers can't remember details
from their own crimes.
Some cases just stick right in your brain.
Tell us about the victims.
All right, well, this girl,
she was just a waste case.
The jury bought into the whole
addiction-as-disease BS.
And this old guy, he was a thug.
He beat his wife, but the case fell apart
because she wouldn't testify.
-Surrani?
-He drank and drove.
It was a tragedy,
but it was the kind of thing that could
happen to anybody, so...
So, who do you think we're looking for
My guess is he's a crime victim.
-Probably something violent.
-But you do think he's a hero?
Well, you know, this city
makes you swallow a lot of crap.
It's hard not to feel for someone
who won't take it any more.
These haven't been released
to the press. They're pretty grim.
Well, I've seen plenty of crime scenes.
-Right.
-Yeah.
Huh?
We're stuck on the ear.
Is it for killing efficiency or symbolism?
Why would you stab someone
through the ear into their brain?
What's going on here?
The profile leads us to think that
he works close
to the criminal justice system.
-What do you think?
-Oh, no, no.
You didn't bring me in here
because you wanted my help.
Profile suggests this guy'd
contact the media. He hasn't.
And we thought the killer
wouldn't need to contact the press
if he were the press.
You're single-handedly turning
this psychopath into a folk hero.
So what happened?
You get your men killed on the job
and you think everybody else
must be a killer, too?
-Watch your mouth.
-It's okay, Hotch.
Not our guy.
Damn right. I didn't kill anybody.
What about you?
Wagner. You're right.
You're not the killer.
Mmm-hmm.
Everything you feel is vicarious.
You don't have it in you to act.
This psycho's the last chance for you.
You've screwed up other jobs.
You drank too much.
You probably have
a broken marriage or two.
You're actually hoping
he doesn't get caught for a while.
That part of you knows
that's twisted and pathetic,
but, hey, just reporting the news, right?
Hey.
Hey!
The reporter is not our vigilante.
Yeah, we know. How do you know?
There was just another shooting
in Central Park.
You say shooting,
what about the rest of the signature?
Officers heard the shot,
but he ran off before they got there.
The victim was an undercover cop.
I think you're looking for me.
-Put the gun on the ground!
-On your knees!
-On your knees right now!
-Drop the gun!
Get down! Don't move!
No, you don't understand.
I did this all for you.
We're in this together.
Name's Will Sykes.
He's a security guard
at a boutique in SoHo.
He was a mugging victim last year.
Spent two days in intensive care.
Fits the profile.
-How's it going in here?
-He just confessed to all the murders.
-So, what were you doing in the park?
-It's full of animals.
Muggers, scum, drug dealers.
I knew one of them
would try to prey on me.
That's not your usual method.
I mean, you target them.
You don't let them target you.
I made that point.
Now I'm making this one.
Which is?
If you hunt us on the street,
you will die the way you lived.
So, why turn yourself in now?
I can't change this city without help.
People need to be inspired.
They need to see me.
They need to hear my voice.
Can you tell me about the cab driver,
Derbin?
He was a thug. A wife beater.
And the priest?
What's to know? He preyed on young boys.
Is that why you stabbed him in the groin?
It's what he deserved.
-Thank you.
-Mmm-hmm.
Why would he confess to murders
he didn't commit?
Because he has narcissistic delusions.
He wants the glory. He wants to be a star.
He went into the park hoping that
somebody would mess with him.
He killed your undercover cop,
but not the others.
So, where does that leave us?
We know our UnSub has
a heightened sense of right and wrong.
If he knew that he inspired a would-be
vigilante to murder an undercover cop,
he might feel remorse.
Do you think you might be able
to mend fences
with the reporter, Wagner?
If it played to his ego, yeah.
Well, we might be able
to draw the UnSub out.
That's a good one.
Wagner said, this morning,
that the cop's blood
is all over the vigilante's hands.
How did JJ get him to cooperate?
UnSub might feel a need to be there,
physically mourn for what he caused.
If that article lures him, Wagner gets
to claim he caught a murderer.
It's the ultimate scoop.
I briefed your men.
If the UnSub's there, he'll be alone,
out of place, not speaking to anyone else,
probably not even making eye contact.
Hopefully, he'll panic,
draw attention on himself.
I can never get that sound out of my head.
It wakes me in the middle of the night.
If there was any justice,
cop-killers would have to hear it
for an eternity.
Hotchner.
Hey, Hotch. Hotch, it's Morgan.
Thank you. Listen, something's funlq, man.
I'm here trying to get transcripts
from the victims' original trials.
I thought maybe there could have
been a disturbance at the courthouse,
or maybe the UnSub
even made himself known.
-You know what I mean?-Yeah.
Okay, well here's the thing.
There are no records available yet
from the cabbie's trial.
The clerk told me
that your average court reporter
_ is three-to-six months
behind in transcribing his notes.
That means that anyone who knows
the details of that case
had to have been in the courtroom.
Court reporters
take their work home with them.
They get paid overtime.
They take their notes in court
and finish transcribing them at night.
You know what Bennett said about
not being able to get the sound
of bagpipes out of her head.
Maybe that's why the UnSub stabs the ears.
Killers often harm their victims in ways
that they themselves have been harmed.
A court reporter is by definition
a faceless cog in the machine.
He sits there, day in, day out,
transcribing testimony.
Well, what if the voices wouldn't stop
when you left the courtroom?
The witness in the church said that the
UnSub was doing a piano-like motion.
Or transcribing.
Killing's a good way
to get the voices to stop, huh?
Holla.
I need the name of the court stenographer
in each of the victims' original trials.
Same one every time. Marvin Doyle.
Crosscheck him against crime records.
See if he was ever the victim
of a Violent crime.
No, not him.
His parents,
killed in an attempted robbery, '04.
That's his stressor. Is he still working?
100 Centre, Courtroom 103.
We got him.
Marvin Doyle. Is that him?
Doyle called in sick.
-We were in this courtroom yesterday.
-He saw us.
Tell your judge I need a warrant.
Take that.
Marvin Doyle? FBI. Open up.
Clear!
Clear.
Trying to keep the voices out.
Soundproofed the entire place.
He ripped the speakers out of
the television and the radio.
And here is a life insurance check
for $250,000.
It's two years old. He didn't cash it.
Won't accept blood money.
Here's a box full of flint knives.
There's got to be 100 of them.
Guys, come take a look at this.
It's a stenography machine,
but look at the keys.
They're all worn out.
It's like he was trying to transcribe
the voices in his head
but couldn't keep up.
It looks like hieroglyphics.
It's called steno.
It's basically a phonetic series
of syllables.
No court reporter
takes notes the same way,
so no one can translate them
but the reporter himself.
He's getting paid overtime
to study potential victims.
He knows we're on to him.
He's racmg us now.
Someone in these boxes is targeted to die.
We need to get inside his head and
figure out who, so we can stop him.
Let's go. Start fishing.
You know, this is a lot of boxes,
how are we supposed to narrow it down?
Check and see if it ended in acquittal.
If it didn't, toss it aside.
It has to be a capital case.
He's escalating.
The more brutal the better.
Why not go by most recent?
Judging by his elaborate filing system,
Doyle, obviously,
has obsessive-compulsive disorder.
People with OCD often finish tasks
and then go back to the beginning
and start over.
So he continually goes
through the transcripts
and the first one to trigger him
becomes his next victim.
Here's one.
This is a liquor store owner
who was shot with his own gun.
Flip to when they present the defense.
-Did the defendant testify?
-No.
Stick with the ones
where the accused took the stand.
This is personal. He hears their voices.
Okay.
Doyle's victims all claimed to be
a type of victim themselves.
First two threw themselves
on the mercy of the court,
pleading alcohol and drug-dependency.
The priest said he was a victim,
victim of recent hysteria.
Look for key phrases.
Victim, mercy, anything that signifies
they thought their crime
wasn't their fault.
I think I might have one, guys.
Ted Elmore.
He shot and killed both his parents
after claiming self-defense
for years of physical abuse.
Doyle lost his own parents.
Hearing someone get away with killing
their own, that would haunt him.
-Hello.
-Is Ted Elmore there?
-Not right now. Can I take a message
This is his wife. Who's this?
My name is Jason Gideon, I'm with the FBI.
Honey, the FBI is on the phone.
Mrs Elmore
Come on.
Let's go.
OFFICER2: Move!
All right, move in.
He's in there.
I think I can talk him out.
I have snipers up high.
If they get a clean shot,
they have my order to take it.
Well, we might be able to reason.
We rushed him.
He doesn't want to
have an innocent hostage.
He has an exaggerated sense
of right and wrong.
And so do I.
Talking's worth a shot.
I'm coming with you.
-Shut up!
-He didn't do anything to you.
Tell her how you lied.
Tell her how you killed your parents
and pretended they'd been hurting you.
They did hurt me.
I'll kill him.
Then you wouldn't get to hear the truth.
If he admits the truth,
the voices'll stop, right?
They always lie.
Do you have the shot?
Negaï¬ve.
Let us interrogate him.
Put the gun down.
We're the FBI. We'll get the truth.
Marvin, I'm going to put my gun away.
We'll do this together, okay?
Tell him the truth.
-Tell him how you lied on the stand.
-They did hurt me.
Don't listen to him, Marvin.
If he dies, they'll go away.
What do you think, they won't come back?
Waverly, Iowa, 1999.
A man kills two boys, only to
walk away free and kill another one.
-Stop.
-Haskins, Georgia, last year.
Three white guys. Three white guys
kill a black teenager, just because.
Four witnesses see it, the jury
finds them not guilty, just because.
The first two boys were 14 years old.
The third was only 12.
-Shut up!
-It doesn't stop.
Diallo, Blake, Simpson, T. Cullen Davis.
You can't kill fast enough to keep up.
They killed my parents.
I know.
-I'm so tired.
-Marvin, listen to me.
Why don't you just give me the gun,
and I promise you,
I will get you a place to rest.
Are you clear now?
You.
-Qh!
Gandhi said,
"Better to be_violent if there's violence
in our hearts
"than to put on the cloak of
non-violence to cover impotence."
Gandhi also said,
"I object to violence,
because when it appears to do good,
"the good is only temporary.
"The evil it does is permanent."
He got what he deserved.
He only did what the rest of us
wish we could do.
I felt safer when he was alive.
This is why we need gun control.
The guy's a murderer.
He got his own death penalty.
I say he's a hero.
They only killed him because they
were afraid no jury would convict him.